### Foreword
- We'll build a system to managing *course modules* & their contents.
    - Forms that can be used for 
        - **managing multiple modules per course**
        - **different types of content for each module**
    - Both *modules* and *contents* need to follow a **specific order**
    - We should be **able to reorder them** manually.

### New concept ```formset``` for *modules*
- ***This is still for instructors***.
- One course might has many modules, well, **forms** <small>( at one page )</small>.
- Edit **app-courses/forms.py** <small>( create if not exists )</small>
    - Simply using the ```inlineformset_factory``` & passing args.
- Edit **app-courses/views.py**
    - In short
        - Overriding methods from ```TemplateResponseMixin```, ```View```
        - Specifically, those **redirect**, **GET**, **POST** kind of stuff.
- Edit **app-courses/urls.py**
    - Add route for our newly added functionality.
    - i.e. ```path('<pk>/module/', .. as_view(), name='..'),```
- Edit **app-courses/templates/courses/manage/** 
    - <u>**module/formset.html**</u>
        - This template is for *displaying multiple forms* at the same page.
    - <u>**course/list.html**</u>
        - Add an entry <small>( i.e. ```Edit modules``` )</small> to the course page.


### Adding content to course modules
- ***This is still for instructors***.
- We'll create a view that *handles creating or updating objects* of **any content model**.
    - Instead of creating four different views to create content.
- Some notes for my own confusion
    - You've *never seen this before*? It probably because of these reasons
        - We're *pre-processing* values for the *overriding* purposes.
        - We're overriding the {methods, props} that we inherited.
        - Some params won't show here cuz it lives in the **urls.py**.
        - Typo :: *uppercase*, *lowercase*.
        - Typo :: just typos.
- Edit **courses/views.py** :: ```ContentCreateUpdateView```
    - brief intro
        - get data from routes 
        - get data from DB 
        - create forms & submitting data 
- Edit **courses/urls.py**
    - Three routes were added: *create*, *update*, *delete* :D 
    - e.g. ```module/<int:module_id>/content/<model_name>/create/```
- Edit **app-courses/templates/courses/manage/** 
    - <u>**content/form.html**</u>
        - This template display forms for submitting content data.
        - It varies btw. Depending on how you access <small>( routes-related )</small>.

----------

### What do we have for now
- Module: *create*, *update*, *delete*
- Content: *create*, *update*, *delete*

----------

### We need a *View* to display it!
- ***This is still for instructors***.
- Specifically, display **<u>modules</u> for a course** & **<u>contents</u> for a module** :D 
- Edit **app-courses/views.py**
    - Related class: ```ModuleContentListView``` 
    - What does it do: *simply get the ```Module```*
- Edit **app-courses/urls.py**
    - ```path('.. <int:module_id>/', .. as_view(), name='..')```
- Edit **app-courses/templates/courses/manage/** 
    - <u>**course/list.html**</u>
        - Add an entry <small>( "manage contents" )</small> to the *"My courses"* page 
- Edit **app-courses/templates/courses/manage/** 
    - <u>**module/content_list.html**</u>
        1. Course title
        2. A list of modules 
        3. A list of modules (Edit modules)
        4. Module 
            - Module name 
            - Module contents (a list of) (**with its type**)
        5. Add new content 
            - Buttons for *adding content* (four)
    - For the 4th step, we need *'template tags'* to get its **type**
        - New stuff
            - **app-courses/templatetags/**
                - *\_\_init\_\_.py*
                - *courses.py* (don't mind the name)
            - core code for it 
                - ```PARAM._meta.model_name```

### Hmm, lemme *reorder* it <small>( drap & drop )</small> !
- Ah, I still get no network access right now :(
    - What we need 
        - [ ] ```jquery.min.js``` 
        - [ ] ```jquery-ui.min.js```
        - [ ]  *```addreq```*``` django-braces==1.13.0``` 
- Intro for ```django-braces```
    - It contains lots of  **generic mixins** <small>( aka *additional features* )</small> for Django.
    - The two we'using is 
        - ```CsrfExemptMixin```
            - we don't need the ```{% csrf_token %}``` in templates anymore
        - ```JsonRequestResponseMixin```
            - 