
### Temp memo
- In many situations, you might want to return a response to the user asap,
    - and let the server exec some proc ***asynchronously*** :)
        - this is especially relevant for *time-consuming proc_es* 
        - or *proc_es subject to fails* (e.g. *connection failures* or *require a retry policy*)
- LOL, I think it's basically the same goal for **why async** in a much wider range.
    - Run this, run that.
    - Don't let the 1st ('this') has any chance blocking the code execution. 
- We'll intro a new module which was called [***Celery***](http://docs.celeryproject.org/en/latest/index.html)
    - It's a **distributed task queue** (what the ...)
    - It does **real-time processing** but also **supports scheduling** :D 
    - We can use it to create async tasks 
        - and let them be exec_ed by *workers* asap.
        - You could also schedule them to **run at a specific time** :P 

### Up and running 
- **Celery** 
    - ```pip3 install celery```
    - We still need a ***message broker*** for **handling request from an external source** <br>It takes care of sending msg_es to *workers*, which process takes as they receive them.
    - After installing it, you **still** (& must) need to do these 
        1. ```pip3 install kombu==4.1.0```
        2. ```pip3 install billiard==3.5.0.2```
- **RabbitMQ** 
    - Install
        - ```brew update && brew install rabbitmq``` 
        - ```export PATH=$PATH:/usr/local/sbin``` (add this to ur ```.bashrc``` (or ```.zshrc```))
    - Essential commands 
        - ```rabbitmq-server```
        - ```sudo rabbitmqctl stop``` (args: ```status``` etc.)

### Add it our project 🎉
- What we'll gonna do 
    - Create an async task to *send an email* to our users when they place an order on our site :D 
    - **settings.py**: append ```EMAIL_BACKEND = 'django.core.mail.backends.console.EmailBackend'``` 
- The The conv is to include async-tasks in a file **tasks.py** under ur app folder :D
    - Make a new file named **tasks.py** under **app-orders/** 
    - The code itself is nothing special, it's the ***mechanics*** :D
- Intial setup 
    - Create a new file: **proj-myshop/celery.py**
        1. Add env ```os.environ.setdefault('DJANGO_SETTINGS_MODULE', 'myshop.settings')``` (for **Celery**)
        2. Get an inst of **Celery**: ```app = Celery('myshop')```
        3. Load conf & add prefix: ```app.config_from_object('django.conf:settings', namespace='CELERY')```
        4. Tell *Celery* to auto-discover async tasks: ```app.autodiscover_tasks()``` (Where? Each apps' folder)
    - Then import it to ur project (still under **proj/myshop/**, edit the **__init__.py**)
        - Like this: ```.celery import app as celery_app```
- Now the core part begins (all under the ***app-orders/***)
    - ***tasks.py***
        - Write down the stuff you want to "async-nize" <small>(my own term, of course)</small>.
        - Well, most of the stuff are the same 
            1. with a specific decorator, like the ```@task``` we're using (```from celery import task```)
            2. the param does **NOT** has to be an ID (e.g. ```order_id```)
                - But it is *recommended* (by the author). I .. thought so as well 😅
        - Also, since we're using ***Celery*** and ***RabbitMQ*** along the way 
            - The "*tasks.py*" is not entirely controlled by **Django** (but the **Celery** & **RabbitMQ**!)
    - ***views.py*** (append stuff, obviously)
        - Import & then calling it 
            - ```order_created.delay(order.id)```
                - invoking one another func 
                - & passing an arg
            - About the ```.delay()```
                - *"Apply tasks asynchronously by sending a message."*
        - Apply tasks asynchronously by sending a message.
- Okay, ready to see the results?
    - Preparation
        - Run ```rabbitmq-server``` at *terminal-One*
        - Run ```celery -A myshop worker -l info``` at *terminal-Two*
    - Hooray! 
        - Go to [localhost:8000/orders/create/](http://127.0.0.1:8000/orders/create/)
        - and then check the ***terminal-Two***
    
----------

