
### Now we'll use the *Rosetta* translation interface 
- Intro for the module
    - It's a third-party app that allows u to<br>edit translations.
- Preparation
    - Get it 
        - ```pip3 install django-rosetta==0.8.1```
    - Get it running 
        - ```rosetta``` (append::**myshop/settings.py**)
        - ```path('rosetta/', include('rosetta.urls'))``` (append::**myshop/urls.py**)
    - Go check it here
        - [*localhost:8000/rosetta*](http://localhost:8000/rosetta)
        - Note: ***be sure you've logged in before u access the rosetta site*** (at admin page).
- Some notes here 
    - For translation editing
        - You could basically do anything 
            - So .. the **translation** has ***ALREADY been done at the web interface***!
        - The ```makemessages --all```, ```compilemessages``` will be exec_ed automatically.
    - For translation collaboration
        - Steps: New group ```translators``` => new users add into that group :D 
    - What is ***FUZZY*** (one of the column on the ```rosetta``` page) ? 
        - It's a feature which provided by ```gettext``` (not *Rosetta*!)
        - It **marks translation strings that need to be reviewed***.
            - In plain words, the ```gettext``` would kinda verify the result.
            - If your work doesnt reach that *level*, it will NOT compile (yep).

### i18n for **```urlpatterns```** (<del>no *Rosetta* involved</del> (nope))
- Foreword
    1. Why
        - By providing the *right* (i.e. **i18n**) urls, ur rank might get higher (e.g. Google).
            - Cuz if you got users from various countries, all of them would *understand* (in their mother tongue!!).
    2. How
        - By adding a **language prefix** to URLs (e.g. ```ROOT/[en, es]/APP```)
            - to serve each lang ver under a different base URL :D (#TODO clarify needed)
- Add language prefixes (e.g. ```/en/```, ```/zh-hant/```) 
    - Edit **myshop/urls.py**
        1. ```from django.conf.urls.i18n import i18n_patterns```
        2. replace the ```[ .. ]``` with ```i18n_patterns( .. )``` 
    - See the result 
        - The (end of the) URL would be one of the langs which defined in the **settings.py** 
            - The variable is ```LANGUAGES``` (e.g. ```en```, ```zh_hant```)
        - The lang you would see depends on 
            1. The ```Accepted-Header``` (HTTP attr)
            2. OR ```LANGUAGE_CODE``` (in **settings.py**)
        - Yet, you could access using different suffixes
            - For example 
                - [```127.0.0.1:8000/en/```](http://localhost:8000/en/)
                - [```127.0.0.1:8000/zh-hant/```](http://localhost:8000/zh-hant/)
            - Note 
                - The (non-native) texts were processed at *Rosetta* stage (trans the strings).
                - I found there's quite a few errors. I think I might need to check other's projects :D 
- Translating URL patterns 
    - Edit **myshop/urls.py**
        1. ```from django.utils.translation import gettext_lazy as _```
        2. modify the first arg (except the ```rosetta/``` and ```/```)
            - OLD: ```path('cart/')```
            - NEW: ```path(_('cart/')```
    - Similar steps for these files 
        - **orders/urls.py**
        - **payment/urls.py**
    - For those (un)translated urls
        - Some of them does NOT ***have a literal for translating***. <small>(e.g. ```<slug:category_slug>/``` for **app-shop**)</small>
        - Some of them does NOT ***directly show at the address bar***. <small>(e.g. ```apply/``` for **app-coupons**)</small>
    - After you've added (*trans-markers*, actually) those
        - Run ```django-admin makemessages --all```
        - Now there should be 
            - Updated files (```.po```)
            - New stuff for translating (at [localhost:8000/rosetta](http://localhost:8000/rosetta)). (**Be sure you've logged in!**)
- Let users to ***able to switch languages*** 🙂
    - Simply (huh?) editing the **app-shop/templates/shop/base.html**
    - Rough procedures (most work were done by **Django** itself)
        1. get stuff: *current lang* & *available langs* 
        2. loop the available langs (display as options) (then u can *switch* it)
        
### i18n for **DB models**
- Lemme introduce ... [django-parler](https://github.com/django-parler/django-parler)!
    - Quotes from book
        1. It generates separated tables for each model that contains translations.
        2. The tables includes ***all the trans fields*** (**not** completely accurate)
            - & a ***fK*** for the original object that ***the trans belongs to***.
            - & a ***language field*** for each row (for **indicating what language it is**).
    - Note 
        - For those "translated" fields, 
            - you can no longer *ordering* it by using ```class Meta```, aka ```ordering = ('name')``` .
            - Queries ```filtering``` still works like before :P
    - Get it  
        - ```pip3 install django-parler==1.9.2```
- Modify stuff 
    - Some words ahead 
        - We are ***wrapping*** the original to "mark" it as 'translate-needed'.
        - Though there's some limitations.
            1. Features like ```class Meta :: ordering``` cannot be used, you should find the other way.
            2. Sth. like ```prepopulated_fields``` could (& need) do in another way (equivalent, backed by Django)
    - **myshop/settings.py**
        - ```INSTALLED_APPS```
            - append ```parler``` 
        - ```PARLER_LANGUAGES```
            - add stuff like ```'code': 'zh-Hant'```, ```'fallback': 'en',``` (just a glimpse)
    - **shop/models.py** & **shop/admin.py**
        - I won't show much details here. 
        - A brief summary here: ***wrapping*** & ***polyfill*** (fix-compat).
- Now let's make it work 
    - Migrating it 
        1. ```./manage.py makemigrations shop --name "translations"```
        2. ```./manage.py migrate shop```
    - Words ahead 
        - The fields you "wrapped" will (definitely) be deleted, 
        - so.. that means you gotta re-create the data for (those) fields (alright).
    - Big words ahead 
        - Since you need to re-create the data (oh, you'd better del all the old data)
        - **DO REMEMBER** to uncomment the methods under **app-shop/models.py**
            1. ```get_absolute_url```
            2. ```__str__```
        - **Un-comment them after you've added some products** (one for each category is enough).
